okay a request for dr k to talk about
narcissism i watch dr k's entitled
parents video
and as i listen to him explain the
definition of a narcissist i realize
that i do know a narcissist it's me
good job bro basically i only knew about
narcissism from a grandmother who
people called a narcissist and all the
internet horror stories and it led me to
believe that narcissism is something
else
i don't believe i am better than
everyone else i believe i'm worse
actually
and i don't use people or intentionally
do evil things to them
but i fit dr k's definition of
narcissism to a t
i have been told by friends that i only
think about myself and i seem to be
unable to consider how other people are
feeling before i do or say things
i've also recently caught myself feel
having anxiety that a friend's sad mood
that i knew wasn't about me the french
had told me about several difficult
things
in his life so i i knew for sure it
wasn't about me was actually about me
that's perfect
i mean that's a good example narcissists
are so vilified on the internet and i
really want dr k to make a video
completely dedicated to how narcissists
can change their mindset and behavior
again
again i don't consider myself a horrible
person and i believe
and i badly want to be a better one i
know that
he would take a very empathetic loving
approach and understand we're not just
horrible people to be avoided at all
costs
there's even a little bit of
there's something about that statement
that just strikes me as
okay something about this person's
narcissism is coming through in the
statement
so here just to recap for people
so a lot of people think that narcissism
is being is what they call being an
entitled [ __ ]
on the internet right so if you go to
the subreddit am i the [ __ ] that's
full of narcissists and i think the term
gets thrown around a lot
entitlement narcissism there's a lot of
like things that kind of get wrapped up
together
and i think the challenge is that
narcissism is
more than being an [ __ ] okay
there there are many [ __ ] who are
narcissists there are many [ __ ] who
are not narcissists and there are many
narcissists who are not [ __ ]
so here are a couple of features that i
really think about in terms of
narcissism
one is a sense of
internal self-worth that is low or shaky
and therefore requires outward
validation to like preserve a sense of
self
so what this kind of means is like if i
don't feel confident in myself
i'm gonna require the rest of the world
telling me that i'm an awesome person
to feel good about myself and so what
happens with narcissistic people
is they engage in behaviors that
lead to those kinds of like outward
shows
so for example you know a lot of people
will like
be like sympathy farmers so they'll go
around like people who are narcissistic
will go around and like
tell stories of like woe is me and what
happens is like when they
are sympathy farming people will be like
oh my god poor you and then they
feel cared for right they feel loved
because other people
are like telling them oh my god that
must be so so
hard for you the problem is that it
becomes narcissistic because you become
self-centered like
and this is where the self-centeredness
comes in because when someone else is
telling a story about sympathy you're
like
oh wow like look at that sweet sweet
sympathy that that person is getting
like
i need me some of that sweet sweet
sympathy man like i feel bad about
myself i don't feel loved like let me
get some that sweet
sympathy oh man you got you got
emotionally abused by your parents
i got physically abused emotionally
abused i got all the abuses man
and so then you one-up them right you
engage in behaviors to garner that
sympathy
but in doing so you actually like are
insensitive to the needs of others
right so that's how like that narcissism
kind of like complex works
so one aspect of it is like insecurity
in your
internal environment requiring you to
engage in behaviors that garner that
sympathy
and this is also why like people like
give you the sympathy but they feel
manipulated by it right like they're
like man [ __ ] that like
like you don't sometimes people don't
even understand what's going on but they
start to dislike you
the second aspect of narcissism is
self-centeredness
it's hard but that like you can't not
think about yourself
and this post has such a good example
they're like
you know if your friend is having a bad
day your mind automatically thinks about
how you are making their day worse
you're not an [ __ ] it's just your
mind is like oh my god how did i screw
up
like i'm screwing up so bad this person
is so upset
and the person can even say hey it has
nothing to do with you like
this is the world does not revolve you
my suffering does not revolve around you
but their brains are just like
populating thoughts but like
you're just they're just saying that to
make me feel better but it is my fault
they're trying to say that to make me
feel better but clearly i'm screwing up
in some way i could be a better friend
and so it's kind of interesting but like
the world kind of revolves around them
so sometimes that
results in like entitlement and [ __ ]
behavior right where you show up
somewhere and you're like
where is my food waiter i've been
waiting for 15 minutes
and you have like no conception that
other human beings have like
lives and challenges and maybe the
waiter has something going on or like
whatever
right so sometimes it results in
assholery but like it doesn't always
result in [ __ ]
sometimes it actually results in like
really low self-esteem
sometimes it results in like a lot of
like once again behaviors that can be
frustrating to other people like
reassurance seeking
like are you sure that you're not upset
at me are you really sure that you're
not upset at me like are you really sure
that you're upset because your dad
passed away and it's not my fault
are you sure and so it's not like you're
being
mean or an [ __ ] to them but you're
also doing things that
make people like not want to engage with
you
and so that's kind of like the end
result of narcissism is that people
don't enjoy
being around you and the reason they
don't enjoy being around you is not
because of like
some you're not fundamentally like a bad
person
it's that your narcissism dictates
certain kinds of behaviors that you're
hungry for
that feel like manipulative or
frustrating to the other person
and neither of y'all can really pin it
down
what is actually wrong here it's a
feeling it's like something feels a
little bit like manipulative about this
but you're not really sure what it is
and so you can't really call attention
to it you can't really fix it
and this actually further reinforces the
insecurity and this is why narcissists
get stuck
because as you engage in these like
hungry behaviors to get
things people feel manipulated they
don't feel
like you're empathic you're not really
listening to them you're one-upping them
you're kind of making it about you
and then as they dislike you and feel
manipulated they don't really like
criticize you but they start to pull
away
and as they start to pull away like the
insecurity gets worse
right and then the vicious cycle like
continues because then you're like you
can feel this person pulling
pulling away and and then it's like if
we think about this person you know
use this example of are you sure you're
not sad because of me and they're like
no dude i'm really not sad because of
you
you're not mad at me no i'm not mad at
you and then is the more you keep asking
the more mad at you they get and then as
they like they're like you know what bro
just don't worry about it i'm just gonna
hang up
the person leaves and then you're like
oh my god they're mad at me and it
becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy
and the next time that someone is upset
that has nothing to do with you
your mind has learned this lesson oh
they were upset with me i did screw it
up
and then the whole cycle repeats
so that's sort of like the narcissistic
construction we can go into more detail
so step number one it's about internal
insecurity that requires external
validation to make you feel good about
yourself
it's hungry you're hungry you're hungry
for it that causes all kinds of
behaviors
second thing is that it's self-centered
which means that
other people are living their lives but
for some reason
whatever is going on in other people's
lives
you feel like the pc and they are npcs
as opposed to them being the pc and you
being the npc
everything revolves around you not like
in an [ __ ] entitled way but like your
mind can't help but think
about you in the situations that other
people have
and then those kinds of behaviors will
in
it will result in impacting your
relationships in a way that
reinforces the insecurity and like makes
the whole problem worse
and then makes you hungrier to begin
with
that's narcissism in a nutshell we'll
definitely talk about it more